Docs/refactors manage dashboard topics (#54178)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/dashboards/manage-dashboards/index.md

  - /docs/grafana/latest/dashboards/time-range-controls/
  - /docs/grafana/latest/reference/timerange/
  - /docs/grafana/latest/dashboards/scripted-dashboards/
  - /docs/grafana/latest/reference/scripting/
  - /docs/grafana/latest/panels/working-with-panels/organize-dashboard/
title: Manage dashboards
menuTitle: Manage dashboards
weight: 8
eywords:
  - grafana
  - dashboard
  - dashboard folders
  - folder
  - folders
  - import
  - export
  - troubleshoot
  - time range
  - scripting
---

# Manage dashboards

A dashboard is a set of one or more [panels]({{< relref "../../panels/" >}}) that visually presents your data in one or more rows.

For more information about creating dashboards, refer to [Add and organize panels](../add-organize-panels).

This topic includes techniques you can use to manage your Grafana dashboards, including:

- [Creating and managing dashboard folders](#create-and-manage-dashboard-folders)
- [Exporting and importing dashboards](#export-and-import-dashboards)
- [Configuring dashboard time range controls](#configure-dashboard-time-range-controls)
- [Organizing dashboards](#organize-a-dashboard)
- [Troubleshooting dashboards](#troubleshoot-dashboards)

> When managing dashboads, you can use:

Author: @torkelo , this is legacy content that for me doesn't really belong, but wanted your opinion on if we should remove it.

Author: removed.

If you want to export a dashboard for others to use, you can add template variables for things like a metric prefix (use a constant variable) and server name.

A template variable of the type `Constant` will automatically be hidden in the dashboard, and will also be added as a required input when the dashboard is imported.

### Import a dashboard

1. Click **Dashboards > Import** in the side menu.

   {{< figure src="/static/img/docs/v70/import_step1.png" max-width="700px" >}}

1. Perform one of the following steps:

   - Upload a dashboard JSON file
   - Paste a [Grafana.com](https://grafana.com) dashboard URL
   - Paste dashboard JSON text directly into the text area

{{< figure src="/static/img/docs/v70/import_step2_grafana.com.png"  max-width="700px" >}}

The import process enables you to change the name of the dashboard, pick the data source you want the dashboard to use, and specify any metric prefixes (if the dashboard uses any).

### Discover dashboards on Grafana.com

Find dashboards for common server applications at [Grafana.com/dashboards](https://grafana.com/dashboards).

{{< figure src="/static/img/docs/v50/gcom_dashboard_list.png" max-width="700px" >}}

> ### Import and sharing with Grafana 2.x or 3.0

Author: @torkelo , this section seems rather old. Should we remove it?

Reviewer: yes, you can remove this section

Author: Done.

### Dashboard refresh rate issues

By default, Grafana queries your data source every 30 seconds. Setting a low refresh rate on your dashboards puts unnecessary stress on the backend. In many cases, querying this frequently isn't necessary because the data isn't being sent to the system such that changes would be seen.

We recommend the following:

- Do not enable auto-refreshing on dashboards, panels, or variables unless you need it. Users can refresh their browser manually, or you can set the refresh rate for a time period that makes sense (every ten minutes, every hour, and so on).
- If it is required, then set the refresh rate to once a minute. Users can always refresh the dashboard manually.
- If your dashboard has a longer time period (such as a week), then you really don't need automated refreshing.

#### Handling or rendering null data is wrong or confusing

Some applications publish data intermittently; for example, they only post a metric when an event occurs. By default, Grafana graphs connect lines between the data points. This can be very deceiving.

In the picture below we have enabled:

- Points and 3-point radius to highlight where data points are actually present.

> - **Null value** is set to **connected**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Connect null values* is set to **Always**.
```

{{< figure src="/static/img/docs/troubleshooting/grafana_null_connected.png" max-width="1200px" >}}

> In this graph, we set graph to show bars instead of lines and set the **Null value** to graph **null as zero**. There is a very big difference in the visuals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this graph, we set graph to show bars instead of lines and set the **No value** under **Standard options** to **0**. There is a very big difference in the visuals.
```

{{< figure src="/static/img/docs/troubleshooting/grafana_null_zero.png" max-width="1200px" >}}

> ## Scripted dashboards

Author: @torkelo , has this feature been deprecated and can we remove this section?

Reviewer: We can remove this remove this section from the docs, it's been deprecated for a long while

Author: Done.
